1.2 Belt Conveyors BC U1 – U5
The belt conveyor system performs transport of the coal received from the semi-mobile crushing equipment
and delivers it to the secondary crushing equipment. The conveyor system consists of a continuous belt
conveyor line involving conveyors U-1 to U-5 with a capacity of 1000 t/h and common final length of approx.
2901 m.
Almost at the end of the conveyor line, at the conveyor U-5, additional equipment is installed to check the
incoming bulk material and to hold it clean. These are:
 1 magnetic separator,
 2 metal detectors before and after the separator and
 1 belt scale.
The belt conveyors are the key drives for material handling. These drives are only switchable from the local
repair switch to enable the repair operation outside of interlocking. Further, each belt conveyor can be
separately locked in manual mode when the following conveyor is running. If all conditions are met, all
conveyors in the conveying line in the semi-automatic operation start counter to the conveying direction and
stop in the conveying direction.
In the locked and semi-automatic operation, separate and independent switching of individual promoters
within the line is not possible. The sequence described above is observed in all cases.
In an emergency situation the system can be immediately shut-down by opening the emergency stop loop.
This can be done by pulling a ripcord or by pressing a hardware red mushroom emergency stop button or a
virtual red mushroom emergency stop button on a monitor in the control room.
The boot process is delayed by the respective start-warning time.
The stop operation is also delayed as a function of the belt speed and the effective length of the upper belt
run to secure emptying of the conveyor in order to guarantee normal operation.
Figure 2: Example of belt conveyor
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 5 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
1.2.1 Intermediate Belt Conveyor U-1
1.2.1.1 General
The belt conveyor U1 is a functional component of the coal conveying system between the semi-mobile
crushing station and the second crushing plant. From the crushing station the crushed coal is transferred to
the belt conveyor U1 which transports the material further to the hopper of the belt conveyor U2.
The conveyor U1 is a relocated conveyor with an elevating structure. Depending on the mining progress, it
can be shifted together with the semi-mobile crushing station. The belt conveyor U1 consists basically of the
following components:
 Main frame,
 Drive station with drive pulley,
 Take-up station with take-up pulley,
 Feeding hopper,
 Discharge box with chute and adjustable baffle plate,
 Carrying idler stations, conveyor belt and belt cleaners,
 Safety devices.
1.2.1.1 Conveyor frame
The conveyor frame directing the conveyor belt between the drive station and the take-up station is designed
as a welded and bolted steel framework construction. The steel construction rests in the rear part on a
pontoon. On the other side the frame is held by a support which is connected with the main frame via pins. At
the support bottom a pontoon is installed. Both pontoons are connected by an intermediate cross bar via pins.
The rear pontoon has a centering and is thus located centrally under the crusher chute.
The conveyor between the crusher chute and the discharge box is protected by guard covers.
The conveyor is furnished with walkways which provide safe access to the components requiring regular
maintenance as well as in case if corresponding operational, service and inspection works are needed.
Components which can endanger operation and maintenance personnel are equipped with effective and
easily mount/dismountable protective devices/guards.
1.2.1.2 Drive station with discharge box
The drive station is located in the head part (heading section) of the U1. It includes a discharge pulley and a
discharge box which are mounted on the conveyor frame. The discharge pulley is also the drive pulley whose
pillow blocks are connected with the frame. The shaft end of the drive pulley is furnished with a coupling half.
The drive pulley is equipped with one drive unit which is installed laterally on the right side next to the frame.
The shaft of the gear unit is connected with the shaft of the drive pulley via a flange coupling.
The power transmission between the motor and the gear unit is effected via a flexible coupling. The drive unit
is mounted on a torsion-resistant swing base which is fastened to the drive pulley via the flange coupling and
held on the main frame by a torque support on the motor side. A steel beam installed under the swing base
serves as a support beam and shaft break safety. In addition, the drive unit is equipped with a backstop.
For cleaning of the belt after discharge, one pre-scraper and one main scraper are provided.
The discharge box is designed as a welded and bolted steel construction. Inside the discharge box, an
adjustable baffle plate is provided to direct the coal flow centrally on the downstream conveyor belt U2.
Sliding surfaces coming in contact with the transported material are lined with Hardox wear plates.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 6 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
1.2.1.3 Take-up station
The take-up station is a spindle-operated tensioning station consisting of a moveable take-up sledge, a belt
pulley and two take-up spindles. The conveyor belt coming from the drive pulley is guided in the lower run
over carrying idler stations to the take-up sledge. The necessary belt pre-tension is reached by shifting the
take-up sledge with the pulley by means of the spindles and spindle nuts.
The sledge and the take-up spindles are installed in the steel construction. The tension way is built by two
longitudinal beams which are welded to the frame on both sides. Lift-off restraints hold the take-up sledge on
the longitudinal beams. The pedestal bearings of the take-up pulley are fastened on the take-up sledge.
When installing the belt, the sledge should be brought into a definite position depending on the take-up way
and secured there.
The necessary pre-tension of the conveyor belt is effected by a mechanical pre-stressing (note the belt sag!).
If due to the belt elongation the belt tension changes, it must be corrected by the take-up spindles.
Before the take-up pulley, an inside belt cleaner is installed.
1.2.1.4 Feeding box
The feeding box is located in the tail part (end section of U1) and is used for receiving of conveyed material
from the crusher chute and spillage from the apron feeder. The feeding box is designed as a stable welded
and bolted steel construction which rests on the steel substructure.
The lateral walls of the hopper are lined with wear plates. The feeding box is sealed on both sides along the
belt by adjustable rubber strips.
In the feeding zone, reinforced carrying idler stations are applied with idler spacing of 300 mm. The feeding
idler stations are fastened by means of bolted connections.
The rubber curtains mounted in the feeding hopper are intended to reduce dust emissions.
The hopper is protected by covers.
1.2.1.5 Pulleys
The drive pulley has herringbone rubber lining and is supported by pillow blocks with anti-friction bearings
with adapter sleeve. The shaft and pulley tube are connected by taperlock connections.
The take-up pulley has plain rubber lining and is supported by pillow blocks with antifriction bearings with
adapter sleeve. The shaft and pulley tube are connected by taperlock connections.
1.2.1.6 Idlers
Rigid carrying idler stations consist of three idlers with equal length. The idlers are rigidly fastened to the idler
supports. Rigid return idler stations consist of two idlers with equal length. The return run stations have rubber
disc idlers in order to present very narrow surfaces for adhesion and thus to reduce the tendency for material
build up. The idlers are rigidly fastened to the idler supports. Transfer points are equipped with impact idler
stations with rigid fixtures.
Idlers of the same type are interchangeable. The bearings are lubricated for lifetime.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 7 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
1.2.1.7 Belt cleaning equipment
The conveyor U1 is equipped with one primary and one secondary belt scrapers at the discharge pulley. A V-
type plow scraper over the full belt width is installed in the return run before the take-up pulley, where material
can be caught between the belt and pulley. The V-type plow scraper is mounted in a way preventing the steel
frame from reaching the belt after the wiper rubber has completely worn down.
All pulleys in contact with the dirt side of the belt have a pulley scraper to remove adhering material from the
pulley.
1.2.1.8 Safety devices
All exposed rotating parts with the exception of the idlers are protected against accidental contact by boxes,
wire mesh guards or railings.
In cases of emergency the equipment can be turned off by means of emergency switches with relevant pull
cords installed on both sides of the conveyor line. Actuation of the pull rope triggers immediately standstill of
the conveyor and of the technologically interconnected conveying devices.
Visual and acoustic start-up signals are provided by a warning lamp and a horn.
Safety and warning devices include also:
– Material feeding of conveyor,
– Misalignment switch,
– Speed sensor and/or slip controller,
– Belt damage control,
– Filling level sensor of discharge station,
– Supplying of LED-lamps for the entire conveyor.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 8 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx