1.2.2.7 Belt cleaning equipment
The conveyor U2 is equipped with one primary and one secondary belt scrapers at the discharge pulley. A V-
type plow scraper over the full belt width is installed in the return run before the take-up pulley as well as
before the return pulley, where material can be caught between the belt and pulley. The V-type plow scraper
is mounted in a way preventing the steel frame from reaching the belt after the wiper rubber has completely
worn down.
All pulleys in contact with the dirt side of the belt have a pulley scraper to remove adhering material from the
pulley.
1.2.2.8 Safety devices
All exposed rotating parts with the exception of the idlers are protected against accidental contact by boxes,
wire mesh guards or railings.
In cases of emergency the equipment can be turned off by means of emergency switches with relevant pull
cords installed on both sides of the conveyor line. Actuation of the pull rope triggers immediately standstill of
the conveyor and of the technologically interconnected conveying devices.
Visual and acoustic start-up signals are provided by a warning lamp and a horn.
Safety and warning devices include also:
– Limit switches for take-up way limit,
– Travel limit of take-up carriage,
– Misalignment switch,
– Speed sensor and/or slip controller,
– Belt damage control,
– Filling level sensor of hopper,
– Supplying of LED-lamps for the entire conveyor.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 12 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
1.2.3 Stationary Belt Conveyor U-3
1.2.3.1 General
The belt conveyor U3 is a functional component of the coal conveying system between the semi-mobile
crushing station and the second crushing plant. The conveyor U3 receives the coal from the conveyor U2
through its hopper in the return station and carries it as far as the drive station where the material is
transferred further to the belt conveyor U4.
The conveyor U3 is an extendable conveyor with a horizontal structure. Depending on the mining progress, it
can be lengthened. The hopper of U3, the belt conveyor U2 and the semi-mobile crushing station with U1 are
shifted according to the mining technological process. The U3 drive station and conveyor frame remain
stationary. The free space between the end of the conveyor frame and the hopper is filled by corresponding
number of conveyor frame sections.
The initial length is 363 m, the final length is 1100 m.
The belt conveyor U3 consists basically of the following components:
 Conveyor frame,
 Combined drive and take-up station,
 Return station,
 Feeding hopper,
 Discharge box with chute and adjustable baffle plate,
 Carrying idler garlands, conveyor belt and belt cleaners,
 Safety devices.
1.2.3.2 Conveyor frame U3 – initial length
The conveyor frame rests on steel sleepers and builds a connection between the return station and the
combined drive/take-up station. The conveyor consists of definite number of frame sections which results
from the conveyor length. The initial length of the conveyor U3 is 363 m.
Each conveyor section includes four upper run garlands and two lower run garlands. The idler spacing in the
upper run comprises 1,6 m and in the lower run 3,2 m. All conveyor sections have a system length of 6,4 m.
Each section consists of two supports on which longitudinal stringers made from profile steel are mounted.
The spacing between the supports makes 3,2 m. On the level of lower run garland suspension the supports
are fastened to the frame construction by means of angles. The sleeper is also integrated in the supports of
the conveyor sections.
The textile conveyor belt is supported in the upper run by three-piece garland stations and in the lower run by
two-piece garland stations with rubber disc idlers. The entire conveyor frame is equipped with cable hooks
and segmental arch covers.
The conveyor is furnished with walkways which provide safe access to the components requiring regular
maintenance as well as in case if corresponding operational, service and inspection works are needed.
Components which can endanger operation and maintenance personnel are equipped with effective and
easily mount/dismountable protective devices/guards.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 13 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
1.2.3.3 Extension of the belt conveyor U3
The conveyor is basically extended by adding a definite number of conveyor sections against the conveying
direction. When extending the conveyor frame, the system length of the conveyor sections comprising 6,4 m
each must be observed. The idler spacing in the upper run of 1,6 m must be adhered to as well. The number
of electrical appliances must be adjusted.
With extension of the conveyor, the drive power also increases. The drive units 2 and 3 must be successively
installed. Prior to this, the walkways including grating must be adjusted in the head part of corresponding
drive side.
In the end the drive station U3 will be the same as the drive station U4.
1.2.3.4 Combined drive and take-up station
The drive station with the integrated take-up system is located in the head part (end of conveying line) of the
U3. The supporting structure consists of welded and partly bolted sheet and sectional steel members.
Between the drive station and the conveyor line, the belt is guided over a connecting bridge.
The drive station rests on pontoons, has two drive pulleys and three drive units in the final assembly stage. In
the initial assembly stage only the drive pulley in the rear part of the drive station is equipped with a drive unit.
Depending on the extension of the conveyor, the drive units 2 and 3 will be installed on the discharge side.
The three main frame sections are designed as framework constructions furnished with walkways. The belt is
directed in the upper run over the conveyor frame towards the drive station.
On the discharge side of the station, a discharge pulley and a discharge box are mounted on the frame. The
discharge pulley is also the drive pulley whose pillow blocks are connected with the frame. Each shaft end of
the drive pulley is furnished with a coupling half.
In the start phase no drive units are foreseen for the drive pulley on the discharge side.
For cleaning of the belt after discharge, one pre-scraper and one main scraper are provided.
The discharge box is designed as a welded and bolted steel construction. Inside the discharge box, an
adjustable baffle plate is provided to direct the coal flow centrally on the downstream conveyor belt U4.
Sliding surfaces coming in contact with the transported material are lined with Hardox wear plates.
The tensioning device is a winch-operated take-up station which includes a take-up carriage, rope sheaves
and a driven rope drum. The carriage and the rope sheaves are positioned in the framework construction, the
rope drum with the drive unit are fastened on the frame. The conveyor belt coming from the drive pulley is
directed in the lower run over the second drive pulley to the take-up carriage. The belt loops around the take-
up carriage pulley and runs back in the lower run of the conveyor.
The travel path of the take-up carriage is built by two longitudinal beams welded on both sides in the frame.
The shiftable carriage whose take-up pulley deflects the conveyor belt has four travelling wheels. Further four
horizontal wheels (excenter axis) hold the carriage in the track. The pillow blocks of the take-up pulley are
screwed to the take-up carriage. Possible lifting of the take-up carriage is prevented by lift-off restraints. The
travel way of the take-up carriage is secured by limit switches.
The take-up rope is reeved and directed from the rope drum over rope sheaves to the take-up carriage. When
installing the belt, the carriage should be brought into a definite position depending on the take-up way and
secured there.
The rope is provided with a rope force measuring device which controls and corrects the tension.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 14 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx