The necessary pre-tension of the belt is reached electrically (the value is set). If due to the belt elongation the
value changes, the rope drum control is actuated and the value is adjusted. After extension the take-up forces
must be set again.
The second drive pulley installed in the rear part is a one-side drive pulley whose pillow blocks are connected
with the frame of the tail section. One shaft end of the drive pulley is furnished with a coupling half. The
second drive pulley of the conveyor U3 is equipped with one drive unit which is installed laterally on the left
side in the conveying direction next to the frame.
The shaft of the gear unit is connected with the shaft of the drive pulley via a flange coupling.
The power transmission between the motor and the gear unit is effected via a flexible coupling. The drive unit
is mounted on a torsion-resistant swing base which is fastened to the drive pulley via the flange coupling and
held on the main frame by a torque support. In addition, the drive unit is equipped with a backstop.
1.2.3.1 Return station with feeding hopper
The return station with the feeding hopper is mounted on a pontoon. Under the pontoon an anchoring
construction is embedded. The anchoring consists of a pivot plate, strings and two ground anchors. The
pontoon and the pivot plate are connected via a pin of the plate.
The steel construction of the return station includes a frame and a hopper. It is a welded and partly bolted
steel structure. The frame of the feeding hopper is fastened on the pontoon by means of bolted connections.
The feeding hopper is located in the tail part (end section of U3) and is used for receiving of conveyed
material from the belt conveyor U2. It is designed as a stable welded and bolted steel construction which is
connected with the frame via bolted connections. The lateral walls of the hopper are lined with wear plates.
The feeding box is sealed on both sides along the belt by adjustable rubber strips.
The rubber curtains mounted in the feeding hopper are intended to reduce dust emissions. The hopper is
protected by covers.
In the feeding zone, reinforced garland stations are applied. The feeding garlands are fastened by pins with
wedges. In the outlet zone the upper run garlands are hung.
For belt directing, in the lower run a self-centring belt training station is provided as well as an inside belt
cleaner and a diagonal scraper.
The return pulley is precisely aligned and fastened on the frame via pillow blocks. It is covered by a protective
hood to prevent access to the rotating parts.
The return station with hopper are protected on both sides by guard gratings.
1.2.3.2 Pulleys
The drive pulleys have herringbone rubber lining and are supported by pillow blocks with anti-friction bearings
with adapter sleeve. The shaft and pulley tube are connected by taperlock connections.
The return and take-up pulleys have plain rubber lagging and are supported by pillow blocks with antifriction
bearings with adapter sleeve. The shaft and pulley tube are connected by taperlock connections.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 15 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
1.2.3.3 Idlers
Both the carrying run and the return run of the conveyor belt are supported by garland idlers. The carrying
garland stations consist of three idlers with equal length and hook suspension. The V-type return garland
stations consist of two idlers with equal length and chain suspension. The return run stations have rubber disc
idlers in order to present very narrow surfaces for adhesion and thus to reduce the tendency for material build
up. Transfer points are equipped by impact idler garlands with bolt and wedge suspension.
Idlers of the same type are interchangeable. The bearings are lubricated for lifetime.
1.2.3.4 Belt cleaning equipment
The conveyor U3 is equipped with one primary and one secondary belt scrapers at the discharge pulley. A V-
type plow scraper over the full belt width is installed in the return run before the take-up pulley as well as
before the return pulley, where material can be caught between the belt and pulley. The V-type plow scraper
is mounted in a way preventing the steel frame from reaching the belt after the wiper rubber has completely
worn down.
All pulleys in contact with the dirt side of the belt have a pulley scraper to remove adhering material from the
pulley.
1.2.3.5 Safety devices
All exposed rotating parts with the exception of the idlers are protected against accidental contact by boxes,
wire mesh guards or railings.
In cases of emergency the equipment can be turned off by means of emergency switches with relevant pull
cords installed on both sides of the conveyor line. Actuation of the pull rope triggers immediately standstill of
the conveyor and of the technologically interconnected conveying devices.
Visual and acoustic start-up signals are provided by a warning lamp and a horn.
Safety and warning devices include also:
– Limit switches for take-up way limit,
– Travel limit of take-up carriage,
– Misalignment switch,
– Speed sensor and/or slip controller,
– Belt damage control,
– Filling level sensor of hopper,
– Supplying of LED-lamps for the entire conveyor.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 16 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
1.2.4 Stationary Belt Conveyor U-4
1.2.4.1 General
The belt conveyor U4 is a functional component of the coal conveying system between the semi-mobile
crushing station and the second crushing plant. The conveyor U4 receives the coal from the conveyor U3
through its hopper in the return station and carries it as far as the drive station where the material is
transferred further to the belt conveyor U5. Additionally, the drive station is equipped with a metal detector.
The conveyor U4 has a horizontal structure. It consists basically of the following components:
 Conveyor frame,
 Combined drive and take-up station,
 Return station,
 Feeding hopper,
 Discharge box with chute and adjustable baffle plate,
 Carrying idler garlands, conveyor belt and belt cleaners,
 Metal detector,
 Safety devices.
1.2.4.2 Conveyor frame U4
The conveyor frame rests on steel sleepers and builds a connection between the return station and the
combined drive/take-up station. The conveyor consists of definite number of frame sections which results
from the conveyor length.
Each conveyor section includes four upper run garlands and two lower run garlands. The idler spacing in the
upper run comprises 1,6 m and in the lower run 3,2 m. All conveyor sections have a system length of 6,4 m.
Each section consists of two supports on which longitudinal stringers made from profile steel are mounted.
The spacing between the supports makes 3,2 m. On the level of lower run garland suspension the supports
are fastened to the frame construction by means of angles. The sleeper is also integrated in the supports of
the conveyor sections.
The textile conveyor belt is supported in the upper run by three-piece garland stations and in the lower run by
two-piece garland stations with rubber disc idlers. The entire conveyor frame is equipped with cable hooks
and segmental arch covers.
The conveyor is furnished with walkways which provide safe access to the components requiring regular
maintenance as well as in case if corresponding operational, service and inspection works are needed.
Components which can endanger operation and maintenance personnel are equipped with effective and
easily mount/dismountable protective devices/guards.
1.2.4.1 Combined drive and take-up station
The drive station with the integrated take-up system is located in the head part (end of conveying line) of the
U4. The supporting structure consists of welded and partly bolted sheet and sectional steel members.
Between the drive station and the conveyor line, the belt is guided over a connecting bridge.
The drive station rests on pontoons, has two drive pulleys and two drive units. The three main frame sections
are designed as framework constructions furnished with walkways. The belt is directed in the upper run over
the conveyor frame towards the drive station.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 17 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx