1.2.2 Relocated Belt Conveyor U-2
1.2.2.1 General
The belt conveyor U2 is a functional component of the coal conveying system between the semi-mobile
crushing station and the second crushing plant. From the crushing station the crushed coal is transferred to
the belt conveyor U1 which transports the material further to the hopper of the belt conveyor U2. The
conveyor U2 carries the coal as far as the drive station and transfers it to the belt conveyor U3.
The conveyor U2 is a relocated conveyor with an elevating structure. Depending on the mining progress, it
can be shifted together with the semi-mobile crushing station. The belt conveyor U2 consists basically of the
following components:
 Conveyor frame,
 Combined drive and take-up station,
 Return station,
 Feeding hopper,
 Discharge box with chute and adjustable baffle plate,
 Carrying idler garlands, conveyor belt and belt cleaners,
 Safety devices.
1.2.2.2 Conveyor frame
The conveyor frame rests on steel sleepers and builds a connection between the return station and the
combined drive/take-up station. The conveyor consists of definite number of frame sections which results
from the conveyor length.
Each conveyor section includes four upper run garlands and two lower run garlands. The idler spacing in the
upper run comprises 1,6 m and in the lower run 3,2 m. All conveyor sections have a system length of 6,4 m.
Each section consists of two supports on which longitudinal stringers made from profile steel are mounted.
The spacing between the supports makes 3,2 m. On the level of lower run garland suspension the supports
are fastened to the frame construction by means of angles. The sleeper is also integrated in the supports of
the conveyor sections.
The textile conveyor belt is supported in the upper run by three-piece garland stations and in the lower run by
two-piece garland stations with rubber disc idlers. The entire conveyor frame is equipped with cable hooks
and segmental arch covers.
The conveyor is furnished with walkways which provide safe access to the components requiring regular
maintenance as well as in case if corresponding operational, service and inspection works are needed.
Components which can endanger operation and maintenance personnel are equipped with effective and
easily mount/dismountable protective devices/guards.
1.2.2.3 Combined drive and take-up station
The drive station with the integrated take-up system is located in the head part (end of conveying line) of the
U2. The supporting structure consists of welded and partly bolted sheet and sectional steel members.
Between the drive station and the conveyor line, the belt is guided over a connecting bridge.
The drive station rests on pontoons, has two drive pulleys and three drive units. The three main frame
sections are designed as framework constructions furnished with walkways. The belt is directed in the upper
run over the conveyor frame towards the drive station.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 9 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
On the discharge side of the station, a discharge pulley and a discharge box are mounted on the frame. The
discharge pulley is also the drive pulley whose pillow blocks are connected with the frame. Each shaft end of
the drive pulley is furnished with a coupling half.
The drive pulley on the discharge side is equipped with two drive units which are installed laterally on the right
and left side next to the frame. The shaft of each gear unit is connected with the shaft of the drive pulley via a
flange coupling.
The power transmission between the motor and the gear unit is effected via a flexible coupling. The drive unit
is mounted on a torsion-resistant swing base which is fastened to the drive pulley via the flange coupling and
held on the main frame by a torque support. In addition, the drive unit is equipped with a backstop.
For cleaning of the belt after discharge, one pre-scraper and one main scraper are provided.
The discharge box is designed as a welded and bolted steel construction. Inside the discharge box, an
adjustable baffle plate is provided to direct the coal flow centrally on the downstream conveyor belt U3.
Sliding surfaces coming in contact with the transported material are lined with Hardox wear plates.
The tensioning device is a winch-operated take-up station which includes a take-up carriage, rope sheaves
and a driven rope drum. The carriage and the rope sheaves are positioned in the framework construction, the
rope drum with the drive unit are fastened on the frame. The conveyor belt coming from the drive pulley is
directed in the lower run over the second drive pulley to the take-up carriage. The belt loops around the take-
up carriage pulley and runs back in the lower run of the conveyor.
The travel path of the take-up carriage is built by two longitudinal beams welded on both sides in the frame.
The shiftable carriage whose take-up pulley deflects the conveyor belt has four travelling wheels. Further four
horizontal wheels (excenter axis) hold the carriage in the track. The pillow blocks of the take-up pulley are
screwed to the take-up carriage. Possible lifting of the take-up carriage is prevented by lift-off restraints. The
travel way of the take-up carriage is secured by limit switches.
The take-up rope is reeved and directed from the rope drum over rope sheaves to the take-up carriage. When
installing the belt, the carriage should be brought into a definite position depending on the take-up way and
secured there.
The rope is provided with a rope force measuring device which controls and corrects the tension.
The necessary pre-tension of the belt is reached electrically (the value is set). If due to the belt elongation the
value changes, the rope drum control is actuated and the value is adjusted.
The second drive pulley installed in the rear part is a one-side drive pulley whose pillow blocks are connected
with the frame of the tail section. One shaft end of the drive pulley is furnished with a coupling half. The
second drive pulley of the conveyor U2 is equipped with one drive unit which is installed laterally on the left
side in the conveying direction next to the frame.
The shaft of the gear unit is connected with the shaft of the drive pulley via a flange coupling.
The power transmission between the motor and the gear unit is effected via a flexible coupling. The drive unit
is mounted on a torsion-resistant swing base which is fastened to the drive pulley via the flange coupling and
held on the main frame by a torque support.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 10 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
1.2.2.4 Return station with feeding hopper
The return station with the feeding hopper is mounted on a pontoon. Under the pontoon an anchoring
construction is embedded. The anchoring consists of a pivot plate, strings and two ground anchors. The
pontoon and the pivot plate are connected via a pin of the plate.
The steel construction of the return station includes a frame and a hopper. It is a welded and partly bolted
steel structure. The frame of the feeding hopper is fastened on the pontoon by means of bolted connections.
The feeding hopper is located in the tail part (end section of U2) and is used for receiving of conveyed
material from the belt conveyor U1. It is designed as a stable welded and bolted steel construction which is
connected with the frame via bolted connections. The lateral walls of the hopper are lined with wear plates.
The feeding box is sealed on both sides along the belt by adjustable rubber strips.
The rubber curtains mounted in the feeding hopper are intended to reduce dust emissions. The hopper is
protected by covers.
In the feeding zone, reinforced garland stations are applied. The feeding garlands are fastened by pins with
wedges. In the outlet zone the upper run garlands are hung.
For belt directing, in the lower run a self-centring belt training station is provided as well as an inside belt
cleaner and a diagonal scraper.
The return pulley is precisely aligned and fastened on the frame via pillow blocks. It is covered by a protective
hood to prevent access to the rotating parts.
The return station with hopper are protected on both sides by guard gratings.
1.2.2.5 Pulleys
The drive pulleys have herringbone rubber lining and are supported by pillow blocks with anti-friction bearings
with adapter sleeve. The shaft and pulley tube are connected by taperlock connections.
The return and take-up pulleys have plain rubber lagging and are supported by pillow blocks with antifriction
bearings with adapter sleeve. The shaft and pulley tube are connected by taperlock connections.
1.2.2.6 Idlers
Both the carrying run and the return run of the conveyor belt are supported by garland idlers. The carrying
garland stations consist of three idlers with equal length and hook suspension. The V-type return garland
stations consist of two idlers with equal length and chain suspension. The return run stations have rubber disc
idlers in order to present very narrow surfaces for adhesion and thus to reduce the tendency for material build
up. Transfer points are equipped by impact idler garlands with bolt and wedge suspension.
Idlers of the same type are interchangeable. The bearings are lubricated for lifetime.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 11 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx