1.2.5.8 Belt cleaning equipment
The conveyor U5 is equipped with one primary and one secondary belt scrapers at the discharge pulley. A V-
type plow scraper over the full belt width is installed in the return run before the take-up pulley as well as
before the return pulley, where material can be caught between the belt and pulley. The V-type plow scraper
is mounted in a way preventing the steel frame from reaching the belt after the wiper rubber has completely
worn down.
All pulleys in contact with the dirt side of the belt have a pulley scraper to remove adhering material from the
pulley.
1.2.5.9 Magnetic separator
The magnetic separator is a belt conveyor, which is orthogonally installed above the main conveyor U-5
behind the return station. In the middle between the lower belt and the upper belt, there is installed a strong
electrical magnet which separates any ferrous parts from the conveyed material flow while the conveyor is
running. From the area in the middle it carries the undesirable metal components sideward, where the
magnetic field is lower, and lets them fall into a collection container for recyclable metal parts.
The metal piece discharge conveyor is hung in a steel construction with possibility of adjustment relatively to
the conveyor line. The steel construction consists of an upper and lower part. The lower part is rigidly
fastened in the concrete ground by means of anchor bolts in the bottom plates.
The steel construction is located at the beginning of the conveyor bridge and protected against atmospheric
effects by a roof. For the purposes of maintenance and assembly of the magnetic separator, the upper part of
the steel construction can be removed and laid down sideways.
The magnetic separator starts up only when the metal detector at the belt conveyor U-4 announces incoming
metal and it runs for several minutes. The magnetic separator doesn’t run continuously together with the
running conveyor U-5.
1.2.5.10 Belt weigher
The belt weigher is installed behind the feeding hopper U5. It is designed to acquire the instantaneous flow
rate. The belt scale consists of at least one load cell, a speed sensor and the processing electronics. The load
cell determines the weight of the load on a certain belt section (1 m), and the speed transducer measures the
belt speed. The product of the two measured variables results in the current feed rate in t/h. The data
provided are passed over to the existing interface of the PLC for further evaluation.
The belt weigher is fastened on the stringers of the conveyor frame and equipped in the upper run with two 3-
piece idler stations for weight acquisition. The belt weigher is installed in the first frame section of the
conveyor line which is located at the beginning of the conveyor bridge.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 24 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
1.2.5.11 Metal detector
Behind the belt weigher, there is the second metal detector installed to recognize remaining undetected metal
parts in the material flow. After detection of metal foreign bodies, a discharge station gets activated to
facilitate identification of the relevant location.
In case of detection of metal parts in the material flow, the metal detector stops the belt conveyor.
The metal detector is composed of a frame with a search coil. The metal detector generates an
electromagnetic field. If a metal object enters the field, the measurement signal is deflected in a certain
direction. When the metal object leaves the field, a deflection occurs in the opposite direction. If both
triggering limits of the signal are exceeded, the metal relay is switched.
An electronic circuit with an adjustable trigger enables the detection and display of metal elements.
An easy access to the conveyor is provided in the selecting line section.
1.2.5.12 Safety devices
All exposed rotating parts with the exception of the idlers are protected against accidental contact by boxes,
wire mesh guards or railings.
In cases of emergency the equipment can be turned off by means of emergency switches with relevant pull
cords installed on both sides of the conveyor line. Actuation of the pull rope triggers immediately standstill of
the conveyor and of the technologically interconnected conveying devices.
Visual and acoustic start-up signals are provided by a warning lamp and a horn.
Safety and warning devices include also:
– Limit switches for take-up way limit,
– Misalignment switch,
– Speed sensor and/or slip controller,
– Belt damage control,
– Filling level sensor of hopper,
– Supplying of LED-lamps for the entire conveyor.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 25 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx