On the discharge side of the station, a discharge pulley and a discharge box are mounted on the frame. The
discharge pulley is also the drive pulley whose pillow blocks are connected with the frame. Each shaft end of
the drive pulley is furnished with a coupling half.
The drive pulley on the discharge side is equipped with one drive unit which is installed laterally on the right
side next to the frame. The shaft of the gear unit is connected with the shaft of the drive pulley via a flange
coupling.
The power transmission between the motor and the gear unit is effected via a flexible coupling. The drive unit
is mounted on a torsion-resistant swing base which is fastened to the drive pulley via the flange coupling and
held on the main frame by a torque support. In addition, the drive unit is equipped with a backstop.
For cleaning of the belt after discharge, one pre-scraper and one main scraper are provided.
The discharge box is designed as a welded and bolted steel construction. Inside the discharge box, an
adjustable baffle plate is provided to direct the coal flow centrally on the downstream conveyor belt U5.
Sliding surfaces coming in contact with the transported material are lined with Hardox wear plates.
The tensioning device is a winch-operated take-up station which includes a take-up carriage, rope sheaves
and a driven rope drum. The carriage and the rope sheaves are positioned in the framework construction, the
rope drum with the drive unit are fastened on the frame. The conveyor belt coming from the drive pulley is
directed in the lower run over the second drive pulley to the take-up carriage. The belt loops around the take-
up carriage pulley and runs back in the lower run of the conveyor.
The travel path of the take-up carriage is built by two longitudinal beams welded on both sides in the frame.
The shiftable carriage whose take-up pulley deflects the conveyor belt has four travelling wheels. Further four
horizontal wheels (excenter axis) hold the carriage in the track. The pillow blocks of the take-up pulley are
screwed to the take-up carriage. Possible lifting of the take-up carriage is prevented by lift-off restraints. The
travel way of the take-up carriage is secured by limit switches.
The take-up rope is reeved and directed from the rope drum over rope sheaves to the take-up carriage. When
installing the belt, the carriage should be brought into a definite position depending on the take-up way and
secured there.
The rope is provided with a rope force measuring device which controls and corrects the tension.
The necessary pre-tension of the belt is reached electrically (the value is set). If due to the belt elongation the
value changes, the rope drum control is actuated and the value is adjusted.
The second drive pulley installed in the rear part is a one-side drive pulley whose pillow blocks are connected
with the frame of the tail section. One shaft end of the drive pulley is furnished with a coupling half. The
second drive pulley of the conveyor U4 is equipped with one drive unit which is installed laterally on the left
side in the conveying direction next to the frame.
The shaft of the gear unit is connected with the shaft of the drive pulley via a flange coupling.
The power transmission between the motor and the gear unit is effected via a flexible coupling. The drive unit
is mounted on a torsion-resistant swing base which is fastened to the drive pulley via the flange coupling and
held on the main frame by a torque support.
1.2.4.2 Return station with feeding hopper
The return station with the feeding hopper is mounted on a pontoon. Under the pontoon an anchoring
construction is embedded. The anchoring consists of a pivot plate, strings and two ground anchors. The
pontoon and the pivot plate are connected via a pin of the plate.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 18 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
The steel construction of the return station includes a frame and a hopper. It is a welded and partly bolted
steel structure. The frame of the feeding hopper is fastened on the pontoon by means of bolted connections.
The feeding hopper is located in the tail part (end section of U4) and is used for receiving of conveyed
material from the belt conveyor U3. It is designed as a stable welded and bolted steel construction which is
connected with the frame via bolted connections. The lateral walls of the hopper are lined with wear plates.
The feeding box is sealed on both sides along the belt by adjustable rubber strips.
The rubber curtains mounted in the feeding hopper are intended to reduce dust emissions. The hopper is
protected by covers.
In the feeding zone, reinforced garland stations are applied. The feeding garlands are fastened by pins with
wedges. In the outlet zone the upper run garlands are hung.
For belt directing, in the lower run a self-centring belt training station is provided as well as an inside belt
cleaner and a diagonal scraper.
The return pulley is precisely aligned and fastened on the frame via pillow blocks. It is covered by a protective
hood to prevent access to the rotating parts.
The return station with hopper are protected on both sides by guard gratings.
1.2.4.3 Pulleys
The drive pulleys have herringbone rubber lining and are supported by pillow blocks with anti-friction bearings
with adapter sleeve. The shaft and pulley tube are connected by taperlock connections.
The return and take-up pulleys have plain rubber lagging and are supported by pillow blocks with antifriction
bearings with adapter sleeve. The shaft and pulley tube are connected by taperlock connections.
1.2.4.4 Idlers
Both the carrying run and the return run of the conveyor belt are supported by garland idlers. The carrying
garland stations consist of three idlers with equal length and hook suspension. The V-type return garland
stations consist of two idlers with equal length and chain suspension. The return run stations have rubber disc
idlers in order to present very narrow surfaces for adhesion and thus to reduce the tendency for material build
up. Transfer points are equipped by impact idler garlands with bolt and wedge suspension.
Idlers of the same type are interchangeable. The bearings are lubricated for lifetime.
1.2.4.5 Belt cleaning equipment
The conveyor U4 is equipped with one primary and one secondary belt scrapers at the discharge pulley. A V-
type plow scraper over the full belt width is installed in the return run before the take-up pulley as well as
before the return pulley, where material can be caught between the belt and pulley. The V-type plow scraper
is mounted in a way preventing the steel frame from reaching the belt after the wiper rubber has completely
worn down.
All pulleys in contact with the dirt side of the belt have a pulley scraper to remove adhering material from the
pulley.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 19 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
1.2.4.6 Metal detector
The metal detector is arranged in the construction of the drive/take-up station U4 and aimed to activate the
following magnetic separator in case of detection of metal parts or non-ferromagnetic foreign bodies in the
flow.
The metal detector is composed of a frame with a search coil. The metal detector generates an
electromagnetic field. If a metal object enters the field, the measurement signal is deflected in a certain
direction. When the metal object leaves the field, a deflection occurs in the opposite direction. If both
triggering limits of the signal are exceeded, the metal relay is switched.
An electronic circuit with an adjustable trigger enables the detection and display of metal elements.
1.2.4.7 Safety devices
All exposed rotating parts with the exception of the idlers are protected against accidental contact by boxes,
wire mesh guards or railings.
In cases of emergency the equipment can be turned off by means of emergency switches with relevant pull
cords installed on both sides of the conveyor line. Actuation of the pull rope triggers immediately standstill of
the conveyor and of the technologically interconnected conveying devices.
Visual and acoustic start-up signals are provided by a warning lamp and a horn.
Safety and warning devices include also:
– Limit switches for take-up way limit,
– Travel limit of take-up carriage,
– Misalignment switch,
– Speed sensor and/or slip controller,
– Belt damage control,
– Filling level sensor of hopper,
– Supplying of LED-lamps for the entire conveyor.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 20 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx