1.2.5 Stationary Belt Conveyor U-5
1.2.5.1 General
The belt conveyor U5 is a functional component of the coal conveying system between the semi-mobile
crushing station and the second crushing plant. The conveyor U5 receives the coal from the conveyor U4
through its hopper in the return station and carries it as far as the drive station where the material is
transferred further to the CCH building of the next crushing station.
The conveyor U5 runs for the most part in a closed steel conveyor bridge. The bridge is elevated at an angle
of 7.4° only in the first section (35 m) and has further a horizontal structure.
After the return station the magnetic separator for ferromagnetic parts is arranged. In the successive conveyor
bridge a belt weigher and another metal detector with an adjacent selecting line are installed.
In case of danger emergency exits are provided on the left and right side of the steel bridge. The respective
escape routes lead downstairs via ladders at the columns of the conveyor line.
In the event of fire the conveyor line is protected inside the steel bridge by a fire extinguishing system. The
supply of the fire extinguishing system is located in a container installed at the column 5 of the conveyor
bridge.
For the purposes of maintenance of the conveyor interior, a wash-down system is provided. Wastewater and
roof drainage run downwards in a water collecting system to the main drainage connection.
The belt conveyor U5 consists basically of the following components:
 Conveyor frame,
 Drive station,
 Take-up station,
 Return station,
 Feeding hopper,
 Discharge box with chute and adjustable baffle plate,
 Magnetic separator,
 Belt weigher,
 Metal detector,
 Carrying idler garlands, conveyor belt and belt cleaners,
 Safety devices.
1.2.5.2 Conveyor frame
The conveyor gallery rests on the steel structure of the conveyor bridge and builds a connection between the
return station and the drive station. The conveyor consists of definite number of frame sections which results
from the conveyor length.
Conveyor frame sections accommodate the upper run idler stations at the distance of 1,2 m. The lower run
idler stations are positioned at the frame supports at the distance of 3 m. All conveyor frame sections have a
system length of 3 m. Each frame section consists of 2 stringers made from longitudinally arranged steel
profile and mounted on the steel structure together with the frame supports at the distance of 3 m.
In the area of the CCH intermediate building the frame supports stand on mounting plates which were welded
during the assembly on the anchor plates embedded in concrete.
The textile conveyor belt is supported in the upper run by three-piece carrying idler stations and in the lower
run by two-piece carrying idler stations with rubber disc idlers. In the lower run belt training stations are
additionally provided for correct belt running.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 21 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
1.2.5.3 Drive station
The drive station is located in the head part of the U5. Between the drive station, the conveyor line and the
return station, the belt is guided over idler stations which are fastened on the conveyor frame.
The drive stations rests on anchor plates embedded in the concrete floor (+15m level) of the CCH
intermediate building.
The steel frame of the drive station is designed as a welded and bolted steel structure. It includes a discharge
pulley and a discharge box which are mounted on the conveyor frame. The discharge pulley is also the drive
pulley whose pillow blocks are connected with the frame. The shaft end of the drive pulley is furnished with a
coupling half.
The drive pulley is equipped with one drive unit which is installed laterally on the left side in the conveying
direction next to the frame. The shaft of the gear unit is connected with the shaft of the drive pulley via a
flange coupling.
The power transmission between the motor and the gear unit is effected via a flexible coupling. The drive unit
is mounted on a torsion-resistant swing base which is fastened to the drive pulley via the flange coupling and
held on the main frame by a torque support on the motor side. A steel beam installed under the swing base
serves as a support beam and shaft break safety. In addition, the drive unit is equipped with a backstop.
For cleaning of the belt after discharge, one pre-scraper and one main scraper are provided.
The discharge box is designed as a welded and bolted steel construction. Inside the discharge box, an
adjustable baffle plate is provided to direct the coal flow centrally on the downstream conveyor belt U5.
Sliding surfaces coming in contact with the transported material are lined with Hardox wear plates.
1.2.5.4 Take-up station
The take-up station is located at the column 5 of the conveyor bridge. It is a weight-operated tensioning
station which consists of a take-up sledge, a dead weight box with ballast and a take-up pulley. The sledge
and the dead weight box are arranged vertically in lateral guide rails.
The conveyor belt coming from the first deflection pulley is guided downwards to the take-up sledge where it
wraps around the take-up pulley and runs again upwards to the second deflection pulley in the lower run of
the conveyor line.
The guiding device of the take-up sledge is built by two longitudinal beams which are mounted on both sides
of the conveyor bridge and fastened at the foot in concrete by means of anchor bolts.
The take-up sledge is equipped with a V-shaped inside belt cleaner which is mounted on the take-up frame.
The sledge and the dead weight box have lateral guiding elements intended for lateral stabilising during
vertical movement.
The pillow blocks of the take-up pulley are fastened in the take-up sledge. The take-up sledge and the dead
weight box are bolted directly with each other.
For repair and maintenance works, an auxiliary platform is provided at the height of 5,35 m. In its middle, the
platform has a through hole. The guiding rails are mounted laterally and the take-up sledge with the dead
weight moves vertically through. The work platform is mounted sideways on two single supports. The other
side of the platform is connected with the column 5 of the bridge. The platform is accessible via a walkway to
the column 5 and a ladder installed at the column.
By reason of belt stretching and eventual movements during start-up and shutdown, the dead weight can
move in the vertical direction between the limit values. The travel path of the take-up sledge is controlled and
secured by limit switches.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 22 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx
1.2.5.5 Return station with feeding hopper
The return station with the feeding hopper is installed on an inclined concrete surface with anchor bolts.
The steel construction of the return station includes a frame and a hopper. It is a welded and partly bolted
steel structure. The frame of the feeding hopper stands on stable support feet with anchor bolts installed in
the bottom plates.
The feeding hopper is located in the tail part (end section of U5) and is used for receiving of conveyed
material from the belt conveyor U4. It is designed as a stable welded and bolted steel construction which is
connected with the frame via bolted connections. The lateral walls of the hopper are lined with wear plates.
The feeding box is sealed on both sides along the belt by adjustable rubber strips.
In the feeding zone, reinforced garland stations are applied. The feeding garlands are fastened by pins with
wedges. In the outlet zone the upper run garlands are hung.
For belt directing, in the lower run a self-centring belt training station is provided as well as an inside belt
cleaner and a diagonal scraper.
The return pulley is precisely aligned and fastened on the frame via pillow blocks. It is covered by a protective
hood to prevent access to the rotating parts. The protective hood accommodates sensors for slip control.
The cover of the feeding hopper and the sealed transfer point between the chute and the hopper facilitate
reduction of dust emissions.
The return station with hopper are protected on both sides by guard gratings.
1.2.5.6 Pulleys
The drive pulley has herringbone rubber lining and is supported by pillow blocks with anti-friction bearings
with adapter sleeve. The shaft and pulley tube are connected by taperlock connections.
The return, take-up and deflection pulleys have plain rubber lagging and are supported by pillow blocks with
antifriction bearings with adapter sleeve. The shaft and pulley tube are connected by taperlock connections.
1.2.5.7 Idlers
Rigid carrying idler stations consist of three idlers with equal length. The idlers are rigidly fastened to the idler
supports. Rigid return idler stations consist of two idlers with equal length. The return run stations have rubber
disc idlers in order to present very narrow surfaces for adhesion and thus to reduce the tendency for material
build up. The idlers are rigidly fastened to the idler supports. Transfer points are equipped with impact idler
garlands.
Idlers of the same type are interchangeable. The bearings are lubricated for lifetime.
Project: Stanari Revision: 0
Project no.: 109794 Page: 23 of 25 File name: 109794_M4_BC_EN_.docx